#summary How to Set up a Development Environment
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Introduction =

This page contains instructions and information about setting up a development environment for rotu.

  * *Applies to:* Rotu 2.2
  * *Tested on:* MS Windows Vista
  * *Status:* Draft


  ==Prerequisite Software==
  All of the software below is either [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html Free Software] or [http://opensource.org/ Open Source Software], except for the COD Mod Tools, which is governed by Activision/IW's EULA.  In any event, all of the software is available at no-cost.
    ===Subversion===
    In order to download the source code, you will need a Subversion client.  Subversion is a source code version control system that tracks changes made to source code.  If you do not have a subversion client installed, you must install one.  [http://tortoisesvn.net/ TortoiseSVN] is recommended. [http://tortoisesvn.net/docs/release/TortoiseSVN_en/tsvn-dug.html Tortoise SVN Primer]
    ===Perl===
    The build system is written in Perl, a programming language that excels at text-processing.  If you do not have a recent Perl installed, you must install one.  [http://strawberryperl.com/ Strawberry Perl] is recommended.
    ===Text Editor===
    A good text editor is required for programming.  [http://kate-editor.org/get-it/ Kate], the KDE Advanced Text Editor, is strongly recommended.  Other text editors may be sufficient (Notepad isn't sufficient, and Wordpad isn't a text editor), but Kate is known to have the features required.
    ===GIMP===
    To edit raster images used in the project,  [http://www.gimp.org/ GIMP], the GNU Image Manipulation Program, together with the [http://code.google.com/p/gimp-dds/ GIMP DDS Plugin], is recommended.
    ===Inkscape===
    To edit SVG (Scalable Vector Graphic) files used in the project, you must have an SVG program. [http://inkscape.org/ Inkscape] is recommended.
    ===COD4 Mod Tools===
    To build the mod, you must install Activision/IW's [http://callofduty.filefront.com/file/Call_of_Duty_4_Modern_Warfare_Mod_Tools;85947 Mod Tools].

  ==Get the Source Code==
  Use your subversion client to download the source code to a local working directory.  Project members will do a read-write checkout, while others will do a read-only anonymous svn checkout.  N.B. A read-only checkout doesn't mean you can't change the code you download, it just means you can't upload your changes back to the subversion repository.

  Your local working directory should *not* be in the COD folder, but rather someplace convenient.  I use C:\Users\Mark\work\rotu\trunk, and most developers use a similar location.

  ==Configure the Build System==
  The build system is contained primarily within build\makeMod.pl.  The configuration for makeMod.pl is contained in build\makeConfig.pl. Using your text editor, open makeConfig.pl and edit the codPath, modPath, and uploadPath variables as required for your system. Save your changes, then use your text editor to open makeMod.pl.

  The first line is the path to the perl interpreter you previously installed. You need to edit the line as required, depending on where you installed perl.  Make sure the line begins with the shebang #!, and that it is the very first line in the file.  Save your changes, then close the files.

  ==Configure the the Mod==
  In the src folder are several {{{*_default.cfg}}} configuration files.  These files will need to be edited. Using your text editor, open each of these files and save it in the src folder without the {{{_default}}}, i.e. save {{{server_default.cfg}}} as {{{server.cfg}}}.  *After* you have saved the file under the new name, edit the config settings as appropriate for your system and as desired.

  In the src folder are several {{{*_default.bat}}} batch files.  These files will need to be edited. Using your text editor, open each of these files and save it in the src folder without the {{{_default}}}, i.e. save {{{playMod_default.bat}}} as {{{playMod.bat}}}.  *After* you have saved the file under the new name, edit the batch file as appropriate for your system and as desired.

  ==Build the Mod==
  To build the mod, open a command line (cmd.exe, i.e. 'Command Prompt'), then cd as required to get to the build directory (C:\Users\Mark\work\rotu\trunk\build or similar). To get an idea of makeMod.pl's features, at the command prompt execute
    {{{perl makeMod.pl -h}}}
  Once you've read that brief documentation, execute
    {{{perl makeMod.pl}}}
  to build the mod.  Building may take a minute or more, depending on the speed of your computer.  When the script finishes, the mod will have been compiled, installed, and relevant files copied to the uploadPath you specified in makeConfig.pl.

  ==Play the Mod==
  Using your file manager, browse to the modPath you specified earlier, then click on playMod.bat to play the mod.  If it starts up OK, it is safe to copy the files from the uploadPath to your server.

  ==Errata==
  The build system has not been tested on MS Windows 7 or 8.  There is a good chance it will fail.  I have no facility for testing on those versions of Windows, so if you have problems, please try to find the source of the problem, then open a bug report.