#summary How to Write a Useful Bug Report
= Introduction =

Please follow these guidelines when submitting a bug report.  They will help you create the most-useful bug report possible, and greatly facilitate our quest to fix the bug you are reporting.

Bug reports are *only* for problems with the source code.


= Details =

  # Tell us what version of RotU you are running.  For example, are you running a binary release (which one)?  Did you compile from source code (which revision)?  Have you made any changes to the source code, or are you running the stock version?
  # What version of MS Windows are you running?
  # Is the issue reproducible, i.e. can you make the bug appear on demand?  If so, what steps are required to reproduce the bug?
  # Avoid useless statements such as "it doesn't work".  Instead, be as specific as possible.  Describe what you think the behavior should have been, and describe what the actual behavior is.  Describe what you see or don't see.  Describe any error messages.
  # Attach the portion of console_mp.log that covers the game in question--do not just attach the entire console_mp.log file.  Likewise for the server_mp.log file.
  # What map were running when the bug appeared? Are you using the most recent version of the map?  Does the bug also appear if you use other maps?
  # Include only one issue per bug report.
  # Don't file a bug report if someone else has already filed one.  Instead, review their bug report, then add any additional information that may be helpful to the already submitted bug report.
  # Can you read/write English?  Can you speak/understand spoken English?  Do you have skype/xfire (do not put your username in the bug report, we will contact you via e-mail if we think talking to you would be helpful)

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages